---
title: Git Tools - Notes
date: 2022-07-01 00:00:00 +530
categories: [ Cyber Security Notes, Tools]
tags: [Notes, Pentesting, Tools, Git, Red Team]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

Git repositories always contain a special directory called `.git` which contains all of the meta-information for the repository. This directory can be used to fully recreate a readable copy of the repository, including things like version control and branches. If the repository is local then this directory would be a part of the full repository -- the rest of which would be the items of the repository in a human-readable format; however, as the `.git` directory is enough to recreate the repository in its entirety, the server doesn't need to store the easily readable versions of the files. This means that what we've downloaded isn't actually the full repository, so much as the building blocks we can use to recreate the repo (which is exactly what happens when using `git clone` to create a local copy of a repo!).  

In order to extract the information from the repository, we use a suite of tools called GitTools.

Clone the GitTools repository into your current directory using:  
`git clone https://github.com/internetwache/GitTools`  

The GitTools repository contains three tools:

-   **Dumper** can be used to download an exposed `.git` directory from a website should the owner of the site have forgotten to delete it
-   **Extractor** can be used to take a local `.git` directory and recreate the repository in a readable format. This is designed to work in conjunction with the Dumper, but will also work on the repo that we stole from the Git server. Unfortunately for us, whilst Extractor _will_ give us each commit in a readable format, it will not sort the commits by date  
    
-   **Finder** can be used to search the internet for sites with exposed `.git` directories. This is significantly less useful to an ethical hacker, although may have applications in bug bounty programmes

Let's use Extractor to obtain a readable format of the repository!

The syntax for Extractor is as follows:  
`./extractor.sh REPO_DIR DESTINATION_DIR`

This is slightly confusing, so explaining each option:

-   The `REPO_DIR` is the directory _containing_ the `.git` directory for the repository. Note that this is not the `.git` directory itself. Extractor looks for a `.git` directory _inside_ the specified directory (which is why we had to change the original name of the directory to ".git")
-   The `DESTINATION_DIR` is the subdirectory into which the repository will be created  
    

For example, if we cloned the GitTools repo into the same directory as the `.git` directory we downloaded from the Git Server, we can extract the contents of the stolen repository into a subdirectory called "Website" using:  
`GitTools/Extractor/extractor.sh . Website`

 fancy way with a bash one-liner to read commit-meta files:  
`separator="======================================="; for i in $(ls); do printf "\n\n$separator\n\033[4;1m$i\033[0m\n$(cat $i/commit-meta.txt)\n"; done; printf "\n\n$separator\n\n\n"`  

This gives us the three `commit-meta.txt` files in a nicely formatted order: